Description
===========================

This sub-directory contains my C++ source code for simulating an Anti-Ferromagnetic quantum spin lattice in one dimension (i.e. a spin __chain__) at low temperatures.
<!---
The algorithm is based on the Anti-Ferromagnetic Heisenberg Model, which is __sperimentally__ prooved to describe the physical system.


This work is mostly based on the studies of [Wiese-Ying] [4], who first adapted the Loop Cluster Algorithm (LCA) to spin lattices.
Another useful reference is [Beard] [5] Ph.D. thesis, which exhaustively explains the alorithm details and extends it to continuum limit.


There are two different and equivalent implementations of LCA:
* __Single-cluster__
in which one loop at time is constructed and all the spin in it are flipped;
* __Multi-cluster__
in which the lattice is fully covered with loops that are randomly flipped with 50% of probability.

This project is build upon the latter.
-->

Purpose
------------

The aim of the project is to evaluate staggered susceptivity, uniform susceptivity and linear energy density of the spin chain.


Code
-----------------

The main routine for generating data (measures) is stored in *reticolo-1d.** files, which need also *global.h* header to be included.
A very simple *../Makefile* is also given, which allows to compile the main program with the `gcc` suite (please, set your own compile flags since specific options such as `-march=core2` are selected).
It also tries to automatically detect your machine architeture and suggests you the best `-march=` flag option.


The `main()` function is located in *reticolo-1d.cpp*; class `Reticolo` is defined and implemented in *reticolo-1d.h* and *reticolo-1d.cc*, respectively.
The header *global.h* contains chain parameters like inverse temperature *B*,
exchange coupling coefficient *J*, number of spin sites *N* and doubled Trotter number *M*.
This file is supposed to be dinamically generated by *analisi.sh*, a bash-script that automatizes data generation, analysis and plotting (with [GNUplot] [2]).

### Some notes

Although the plaque detecting function in this implementation is _slightly_ slower than the two-dimensional one, it's not worth upgrading it since the algorithm is quite fast anyway.

I apoologize for code comments are in Italian only.

Data analysis
---------

In the *.cc* file some functions such as `Reticolo::mean()` are defined, that allows to calculate mean and Standard Deviation of Mean (SDM).
However, the *../analisi.cpp* contains tools for binning data contained in *data.dat* (created by execution of *./reticolo-1d*) in bin of variable size _d_ and study them as function of _d_.
Every line of *data.dat* is expected to be formatted as `"%f, %f, %f\n"` to be correctly read by *analisi*.


A [ROOT] [3]-based routine for fitting auto-correlator graphs generated by _analisi.cpp_ is provided in _../fit.cpp_.
To compile it you need to use the following syntax (i.e. to link ROOT library in it):

	g++ fit.cpp -o fit `root-config --libs --cflags` [...]

You will also need the ROOT suite installed on your locale to have the compile process work.

[1]: http://fisica.mib.infn.it/pages/it/chi-siamo/persone/who.php?user=pepe&lang=IT "Go to personal homepage"
[2]: http://www.gnuplot.info/ "Go to gnuplot homepage"
[3]: http://root.cern.ch/drupal/ "Go to ROOT homepage"
<!---
[4]: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-lat/9204015v1 "Blockspin Cluster Algorithms for Quantum Spin Systems"
[5]: http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/38414#files-area "Improvements in cluster algorithms for quantum spin systems"
-->
